since Dark Messiah is really more of a
first-person shooter with RPG elements
we wanted the score to reflect that so
it's very aggressive rudl in-your-face
and we wanted to convey that feeling
more than the typical fantasy score so
while I still used a large Orchestra
choir I was in Sasha's turn to really
sort of make the score unique well we
had one of the goals was to really make
the percussion section and he stopped
the game really massive and brutal and
pretty awful to bring it up to the next
level and kind of reflect the game's
dark and you know brutal combat kind of
mix that in with Chris's stuff and I
think we got a really good mixture well
for the score we didn't want to do the
typical fantasy go to a fantasy route so
we were thinking the score needs to
sound ancient it needs to sound
primitive somehow so when I was writing
the orchestra saying it what's more
primitive than drums really so I made
the orchestra actually
very percussive it's very rhythmic while
it has its melodic side to it it's also
I would say not super melodic it's just
more it's very just aggressive playing
all the way through and to stay with the
whole primitive idea I set the whole
choir they were singing in Sanskrit
which is very old language and bringing
them together in in Prague we recorded a
large choir and orchestra in Prague and
it was in a very historic place so
there's just a sense of just bold that
goes through the whole scores ancient
have been this brutal
well this was the perfect project to
really go all the way out there and
really start up with we started off
going outside and sampling you know
hitting metal sounds you know taking
huge chains and just hitting them on
through you know different types of
stones and different dense materials and
then I would sample that put it back
into the computer and the chemo
workstation of would then edit and
modify the sounds to give it a sense of
weight to them we did that and just the
overall focus or the concussion who us
to get this massive larger-than-life
sound greedy I mean really if I could
compare to anything it would be a movie
like quality percussion you know just
anything you could pretty much hit on or
bank on that was recorded and basically
used as addition to professionally and
in terms of freedom we had really you
know that there was a doubles a certain
spy what they wanted but it was still up
to us to kind of like so it meant that
darkness fire sound and I think it was
really amazing to see that you know
working on a piece and I'm looking at
Curtis and I go Adam is this crazy or is
this great or we're not sure exactly and
then to hear of course back from them
that they loved it and that's exactly
the kind of action they want to go yeah
what's cool is that once we set up our
basic template you listen to a track and
a whole score and you go oh that's from
Dark Messiah
and each each track is different that it
all sounds like this is the world of
darkness at its the Dark Messiah sound